EVERLINK RELAY - FORKING GUIDE
================================

So you want to build your own Relay firmware - a different console/controller
protocol, a different transport, whatever. This is the short version of what you
actually need to change and why. The full wire format is in EverLink_Protocol.md;
read that too, this doc just orients you.

Start from Relay.ino - the reference firmware, which now has a real worked example of
both a wired mode (XInput over USB) and a wireless mode (generic BLE HID) in one file,
including real mode-switching and pairing-status reporting. There's no separate dummy/
example sketch anymore - Relay.ino itself is the example to read.


1. GIVE YOUR FIRMWARE A KIND
-----------------------------
This is the whole point of the Kind field: it's what makes your fork show up in
EverLink Host's relay list as itself, not as an indistinguishable copy of the
reference firmware.

  static const char* RELAY_KIND = "Your Firmware Name Here";

Guidelines:
  - Name the protocol/console family you target ("Wii U Protocol Relay", "GameCube
    Adapter Relay"), not the board and not the individual unit. The reference
    firmware itself uses a deliberately generic Kind ("EverLink Relay") rather than
    naming one specific protocol, because it speaks more than one (XInput over USB,
    generic BLE HID) depending on which mode is active - if your fork also has modes
    that speak genuinely different protocols, consider whether a generic Kind or a
    specific one better represents it; there's no single right answer, just pick
    whichever won't mislead someone who only sees Kind and not your Modes list.
  - Keep it under ~32 characters - it's shown inline in a list row.
  - No ':' , ',' or '|' characters - these are reserved by the wire format and will
    corrupt the parse on Host's end.

That's it for this step. Do it even if you change nothing else - it's how anyone
using your fork (including yourself, running both at once) tells relays apart.


2. DECLARE YOUR MODES
-----------------------
Every Relay has at least one mode. A mode is a named operating state that's either
wired or wireless - that classification is what Host uses to decide whether to show
a mode picker, a "Trigger Pairing" button, or nothing.

  static const char* RELAY_MODES = "Name|wired";                                   // one mode
  static const char* RELAY_MODES = "Wired (XInput)|wired,Wireless (BLE)|wireless";  // two modes - what the reference firmware actually sends

Rules:
  - Comma-separated entries, each "Name|wired" or "Name|wireless" - no other value
    for the second field is recognized.
  - Keep the list in a FIXED order: a mode's position is the index Host sends in the
    mode-switch command. Which mode is active right now goes in the ident reply's
    trailing activeMode field (its index) - never in list order. Make sure that field
    reflects reality when you answer the ping (e.g. if you remember the last mode from
    flash, or Host rescans while you're in your wireless mode).
  - If you only have one mode, you don't need to implement the mode-switch command
    at all (see step 3) - Host never sends it to a Relay whose ident reply lists a
    single mode.
  - Name field follows the same character restrictions as Kind (no ':' ',' '|').
  - Name the actual protocol each mode speaks, not a vague category - "Wired
    (XInput)" and "Wireless (BLE)", not just "Wired" and "Wireless". This matters
    more than it sounds like it should: a generic "Wireless" mode name on a BLE
    firmware could easily be misread as "this behaves like a real Xbox Wireless
    controller", which no BLE firmware can (see step 4's note on this exact
    confusion) - naming the actual transport heads that off before someone flashes
    your firmware expecting console compatibility it structurally cannot have.


3. HANDLE THE MODE-SWITCH COMMAND (only if you have >1 mode)
---------------------------------------------------------------
Host sends two bytes: 0xFD followed by a uint8 mode index (0-based, into the list
you sent in your ident reply). Read both bytes, validate the index, and if it's
valid:

  a) Update whatever internal state tracks your "current mode".
  b) If the mode you just switched TO is wireless, treat this as a fresh
     "begin pairing" request - see step 4. This applies EVEN IF the requested index
     is the mode you were already in. That's not a bug in Host, it's intentional:
     there's no separate "start pairing" command in the protocol. Asking a wireless
     mode to activate IS how pairing gets triggered, whether or not it was already
     active.
  c) Reply with "MODE:<index>\n" (the index you actually ended up in - normally,
     but not necessarily, the one requested).

If the requested index is out of range, do nothing - no reply at all. Host doesn't
treat a missing acknowledgement as an error, it just won't reflect a mode change it
never asked you to reject anyway.

See Relay.ino's processSerialInput()/handleModeSwitch()/setActiveMode() for a real
two-mode implementation: setActiveMode() is where the actual dispatch on the requested
index happens (starting/stopping BLE advertising, switching which output function
loop() calls each iteration), handleModeSwitch() just reads and validates the index
byte, and processSerialInput() is the single place that looks at each incoming lead
byte (ping 0xFE, mode switch 0xFD, data packet 0xA5) and routes it. Keep that
single-dispatcher shape if you add commands of your own: a separate parser per command
lets one parser mistake another's bytes for garbage and discard them.


4. WHAT "PAIRING" ACTUALLY MEANS HERE
----------------------------------------
EverLink's protocol deliberately does NOT know anything about how your wireless
mode pairs - BLE, a proprietary 2.4GHz dongle, whatever. All Host knows is "this
mode is wireless" (from your Modes list) and "ask it to activate" (the mode-switch
command). What you DO when your wireless mode activates is entirely up to you: open
a BLE advertising window (what the reference firmware does - see
setActiveMode(MODE_WIRELESS) in Relay.ino), pair over some other radio, whatever
your actual pairing flow needs.

Report your pairing/connection status to Host as PAIR: lines - see
EverLink_Protocol.md section 6. There are exactly four states: idle, searching,
connected, disconnected (the other side dropped or unpaired you). NOTABLY, THERE IS NO DEVICE-IDENTITY FIELD - a `PAIR:connected` line
means only that something is connected, not what. This isn't a corner Host cut for
simplicity: most wireless transports genuinely don't let a peripheral (which is what
your Relay is, from the connecting device's point of view) read back the connecting
side's friendly name - confirmed for BLE specifically while building the reference
firmware's wireless mode (a peripheral gets the connecting central's Bluetooth
address, never its name, from anything in the standard connection-info API). If your
transport genuinely can report a real peer identity, that would need to be a
separate, additive protocol extension (see step 5) - not something to fake here with
a placeholder string.

One important behavioral detail Host relies on: (re-)activating a wireless mode via
the mode-switch command IS how pairing gets (re-)triggered - there's no separate
"start pairing" command. This applies EVEN IF the requested mode index is the one
you were already in (see step 3's note on this too). Host's own Pair button just
re-sends the currently-active mode's index for exactly this reason. Your
setActiveMode()-equivalent should send `PAIR:searching` immediately whenever a
wireless mode is (re-)activated this way - see Relay.ino's setActiveMode() for how
the reference firmware does this, including force-disconnecting an existing
connection first if this was a re-pair request while already connected (advertising
generally won't accept a new connection on top of an existing one).

Also worth knowing before you build against a specific BLE gamepad library: as of
this firmware being written, lemmingDev/ESP32-BLE-Gamepad's real XInput emulation
mode (the kind Windows would bind its native Xbox driver to) lived only on an
unreleased, unmerged feature branch - the reference firmware uses that library's
stable, released, generic-BLE-HID mode instead, which works fine for real input but
is recognized as a normal Bluetooth gamepad, not specifically as an "Xbox
controller". Check the library's current release state before assuming XInput-over-
BLE is available - and regardless of which BLE HID mode you use, no BLE firmware of
any kind can ever be recognized by an actual Xbox console: Xbox consoles have no
Bluetooth radio at all, full stop, so a wireless mode built on BLE is inherently
PC/phone-only. See Relay.ino's BLE_XBOX_CONSOLE_NOTE for the detail on this.


5. VERSION YOUR PROTOCOL CHANGES, NOT JUST YOUR KIND
--------------------------------------------------------
Kind identifies WHICH firmware this is. Protocol version identifies WHAT WIRE
FORMAT it speaks. These are independent: two different Kinds can both speak
protocol v3 with no changes between them (this is the normal case - most forks
should NOT need to touch PROTOCOL_VERSION at all, just RELAY_KIND/RELAY_MODES).

Only bump PROTOCOL_VERSION if you're changing something Host itself needs to parse
differently - a new field in the ident reply, a new command byte, a changed packet
layout, or (relevant to step 4 above) something like a real connected-device
identity field if your transport can actually supply one. If you do this, you're no
longer really "forking the reference firmware", you're proposing a new protocol
version - update EverLink_Protocol.md and get it merged upstream if you want other
people's Host builds to understand it, or accept that only a Host build that's been
taught your specific extension will support it fully (everyone else will just see
it as "a newer version than I know about" per EverLink_Protocol.md section 1's
forward-compatibility note, and use it as whatever the closest version they DO
understand supports).


THAT'S IT
---------
Steps 1-2 (Kind + Modes) are the only two things every fork should do. Step 3 only
applies if you have more than one mode. Steps 4-5 are guidance for when you get
there, not requirements for a basic fork. A minimal fork that just changes
RELAY_KIND to identify itself, keeps a single "Wired (XInput)" mode (or whatever
your one mode actually speaks), and changes nothing else about the packet handling
is a completely valid, complete fork.
